Let's go ahead and take it for a spin.
So this is that kind of empty repo and
you can see in package JSON I
do have Cypress installed,
there are under devdependencies,
right there.
There are a number of
ways to install Cypress.
I think you can brew,
install with Homebrew.
I think there's probably
a Docker container,
there's a bunch of stuff you can do.
The recommended way if you look what
we saw on the website we first visited.
And if you go digging through
the docs it's to npm install.
Why?
Well, one is that you will get a pinned
version of it for everyone in your
project using the same version, right?
So you don't have to hope if you Homebrew
you gotta hope that everyone's got
the same version.
Two is that later when we
set up a CI/CD pipeline,
it is also easier to have that version
in the repo kind of ready to go as well.
Can you host all your Cypress
sets in a different repo?
Totally, you could, right?
That is going to kind of make it a little
bit more difficult when you want to wire
up CI/CD.
But you can see a world that
like at a large enough company,
there are reasons why
you might want to but
in all those cases there's probably
also reasons why you might not want to.
You could even see a world well you choose
to do both where for your project you have
Cypress kind of doing the major
things around your project.
And then maybe at a large company level
there's a series of end to end tests that
are taking Cypress across multiple
teams applications, right?
There's nothing that ties it to one but
like I said, in terms of working on your
project and making sure everyone in
your team is using the same version, and
also the CI/CD piece of it.
It behooves you to probably
just npm install it and
have a version ready to
go in your package JSON.
All right, so
barring some really great reason or
opinion about why you should do it
a different way, this is probably
the paved path both in my opinion as
well as for the Cypress team as well.
Cool so with that in place let's actually
get this started for the first time.
Now it has been npm installed.
But beyond that,
we've never run it before, right?
And so Cypress has a binary called
Cypress, seems like a good name for it.
And there's basically two major
ways of firing up Cypress,
cypress open and cypress run.
The core difference is cypress open is
mostly the one that you want to use,
especially when you are developing
an application and working on stuff.
Cypress run is probably what your CI/CD
process would like to run, right?
It is the kind of headless mode
that will instead of giving
you anything that you
can personally touch and
poke around on if the tests aren't working
it take screenshots and record videos.
So you can triage it when the build
fails or something along those lines.
So you could make a npm script or
you can also just use MPX if
you're using a version of
npm from the last few years.
MPX basically takes any of
the binaries that are in your
node modules and adds them to the path.
So we could do MPX cypress open and
that will spin up a Electron app For
Cypress, and we're gonna get it for
the very first time.
And there's a few things
to notice about this.
I'm just gonna make mine
a little bit bigger but
you can kinda do whatever
you want in this case.
One is it actually gave you
a bunch of example test, right?
Two is if kind of look in
Visual Studio code I've got this
green addition here which is
a created a new directory.
Let's talk about the directory first and
then we'll go back into the application.
So in here we have fixtures Integration
which are effectively our tests,
plugins which we'll talk about a little
bit and support which is kind of your
utilities and other things that you
might want to pull in for those tests.
So it we went ahead and
it created all of this for you.
You can see that those examples that
we saw in the Electron app that spun up
are mapped to these two directories of
getting started with todo.spec, and
then a whole bunch of other ones
in these advanced examples.
You could either go ahead and delete
these directories yourself, or if you go
back to the Cypress application, you can
see they are nice enough to go ahead.
They put them there they are also
nice enough to go ahead and
delete them for
if you don't want them, right?
It might be worthwhile to kind of poke
around and see how a few of them work.
And we're certainly going to do that
before we hop into the other project that
has kind of where we're actually
doing most of our work today.
So I'm not gonna touch that just yet.
The other kind of interesting thing is you
can choose which browser that you want
to drive, in my case,
I'm gonna use Chrome for most of the day.
But you can use Chrome and
any of the Chromium browsers, right?
So Chrome, Microsoft Edge,
so on and so forth.
If you have a nightly build of
Chrome also installed the computer,
that will show up here as well.
And you can see that there is support for
Firefox as well.
At this moment I do not
think it supports Safari.
But Firefox, Chrome and
the Chromium family of browsers
will work in this case as well.
There you can log in as well.
There will be some things you
might see for the very first time,
for instance, if you hit Open in IDE,
for you it might ask
you to just let it know what
your IDE of choice is, right?
So any of the major ones are there Vim,
VS Code, so on and so forth.
So that will work there as well.
And the interesting part about
Cypress that will kind of explore over
the course of our time together is there
is Cypress the test runner, right?
But then a lot of the other pieces of
Cypress are actually based on other
open source testing tools.
So the syntax for your assertions and
running the test are just Mocha and Chai.
So if you already use those for
your unit tests then when I say it
is the same syntax,
it is literally the same syntax.
We'll get to the caveat to
that sentence in a second.
But mostly the same syntax
because it is Mocha and Chai.
That said there might be a little bit of
an impedance mismatch if you are using
Jest but
we'll talk about how autocomplete and
IntelliSense is your friend in this case.
And how to just navigate
that without having to learn
two tools at the same time.
But you can kinda see some of
the popular things that we've seen
in many of our testing frameworks, right?
Like I said this is Mocha and
Chai, you can even see with the
IntelliSense TypeScript hints there but
this looks indistinguishable
from Jest in this case, right?
So you can probably use either one.
The other interesting part is you've
got this CY object which has a series
of methods.
And you can kinda see that it's gotta
get where you give it a selector.
And then you kinda chain it into a should
that has whatever assertion you wanna do.
There's the ability to get the first and
last one.
Now, so my favorite things,
which is the test runner is, again,
the testing assertion piece, and
then you describe and it blocks,
so on, and so forth are Mocha and
Chai, the selector engine.
Would anyone like to take a wild
guess what selector engine
it's using under the hood?
>> jQuery.?
>> Yes, jQuery.
It is using JQuery.
So for some people that will be
a return to a skill set that maybe
they haven't gotten
a chance to use it lately.
For some of this insecurity,
why is it like that,
because effectively that is
the JQuery under the hood.
So we'll see little pieces of that work
as well but that's where the first and
the last is coming from.
You can again see that In
the TypeScript hints where yes,
it's a Cypress chainable but
under the hood is JQuery doing this.
You have all of the power of JQuery
at your disposal to kind of run and
drive your tests.
So JQuery, Mocha and Chai, for
some of the glob stuff is mini match,
which Isaac who created npm made.
There's a bunch of libraries
that Cypress sits on top of it.
So, if you've used any of these tools in
the past, you're already coming into this
with some amount of knowledge
of how to write Cypress test.
Cuz it's based a lot of ways on these same
tools that building web applications is
based on top of applications
is based on top of.
Like I said before, it is completely
framework agnostic, right?
If you're just going and clicking a button
on the page to verify that does the thing
you expect it to do, it does not matter if
that button was built in React, or Spelt,
or Ember, or what have you.
The button is on the page,
so on and so forth.
That's also great like I said before,
if you have a code base that isn't
a state of transition, right?
You can actually maybe cover a lot
of the current functionality and
tests and
then begin to do the refactor knowing that
everything works the way
that you expect it to.
One of the things kinda just pay kind
of attention to is this chaining
functionality in Cypress.
It does take a little
bit of getting used to,
in a lot of ways they look like promises.
There's some that actually have a then,
I'm not sure if it's in this sample file,
but they're not necessarily
promises per se.
But this code looks synchronous,
it's in fact a synchronous.
There will be little things that we
need to keep in mind as we go through
all of that.
But by the end we should begin to kind
of get the sense of that as we go
through everything.